---
layout: post
title: SMACSS
---

##Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS.

Call me a dork, but I love the theory behind SMACSS.  Having a touch of the ol' OCD in me, I naturally love anything that helps me organize and simplify the structures around me.  SMACSS is no different.  How many times have I gotten bogged down in the weeds of my own CSS?  Too many to count!  While I've done my best to make my own rules for organization, it can be tricky, since CSS is a language that Cascades!

Prefixing elements based on their use just makes sense.  "l" for layout, "is" for state, semantic names for universal application by function and sub-modules for customization, I'm in OCD heaven!  The hard part is training yourself to pre-plan this way and to fight the urge to be quick (or lazy) and just run it all down the way you've always done it.  It's true that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, and that's what I think of when I consider SMACSS.

I'm going to do my best to make this a part of my normal CSS coding.  Let's say I've got two types of elements, Cats and Dogs.  They're both types of pets, so in my CSS I might style them like this:

{% highlight css %}
.pet{
  margin: 5px;
  border: 2px solid #AAADAD;
}
{% endhighlight css %}

But then, in an effort to reverse the trend of a cat dominated internet, I decide to subliminally make viewing dogs more enjoyable.  I can now make two seperate states one for each pet.

{% highlight css%}
.is-pet-dog-active{
  border-color: #F5C52A;
}

.is-pet-active{
  border-color: none;  
}
{% endhighlight css%}

Now then!  We have classes and CSS rules to differentiate between an active pet that is a dog and one that is a cat, or a lizard, or a manitee!  We can use these all around the site and can easily see which rules address which functionality in the site!



