---
layout: post
title: CSS pre-processors
---

CSS pre-processors seem to be the latest "it-thing" in the world of web development.  And unlike a lot of the "new" ways of doing things, this one makes some sense to me.  Yes, a good web developer has probably already figured out how to manage her workflow and organization, but CSS is uniquely difficult to deal with.  It is easy to lose your "DRY-ness" and navigating around a CSS file can become burdensome.

CSS pre-processors such as SASS seem to be a good step towards solving some of the headaches associated with CSS by incorporating some object oriented programming into the world of styling.  You can now use variables to replace values you would otherwise have to write out over and over again, inherit selectors by nesting declarations, create functions via the `@mixin` feature, and much more.  If statements, operations, extensibility, all help increase CSS organization, "DRY-ness" and productivity.

Some nay-say-ers argue that CSS pre-processors do nothing more than add a layer of abstraction while adding no real value, and can actually slow the process down.  In the world of web development, there are many smart people trying to make development easier.  They abstract away from core scripting in an effort to increase productivity.  The problem is, there are too many smart people creating too many abstractions, and what helps the web is uniformity.  I'm not saying I disagree.  (The thought of pre-processing html makes me squirm) 

Yet, with CSS, I'm a fan of pre-processing, provided it is used sparingly.  Too much of anything is a bad thing, and I do agree there are some capabilities that could get out of hand.  For example, the `@extend` feature.  Use a class across many many elements, and the `@extend` could make one heck of a monster selector.  But that's where you make a decision to duplicate the styling of a class for use on other elements to make sense semantically. If you ask me, SASS and other CSS pre-processors are a good idea, and if you don't ask me... I'm saying it anyway!



<p data-height="576" data-theme-id="9015" data-slug-hash="nefdL" data-default-tab="result" data-user="maria-faulisi" class='codepen'>See the Pen <a href='http://codepen.io/maria-faulisi/pen/nefdL/'>nefdL </a> 
by Maria Faulisi (<a href='http://codepen.io/maria-faulisi'>@maria-faulisi</a>) on <a href='http://codepen.io'>CodePen </a>. </p>
<script src="//codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"> </script>

